[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ROBERT PHOENIX: Hi, there.
This is Robert Phoenix, and
welcome to another edition
of "The Eleventh House."
It's always good to be back here
talking astrology and looking
at how the stars are
a navigational tool
for our lives.
And that's pretty
much what they are.
They're a navigational
tool, and they're
a very succinct
navigational tool.
Later on in the show, I'll
share some personal examples
of my life recently that will
confer this data in real time.
Today's show is going to be
just a little bit different
than some of the other shows
that you've seen here on Gaiam.
What we're going to
be looking at today
is sort of a survival
guide through astrology
and through the times that
we're in or based on the times
that we're in, which are quite
challenging in many ways.
But first of all, I think it's
important to set the table, so
to speak, and to kind of
understand what we are
and how astrology plays a
role in our lives and impacts
how we can move through
it successfully.
First of all, we, me, you,
we're multi-dimensional beings.
We exist in many different
levels of space and time.
It's been proven that there
are 12 dimensions of reality.
There are 12 chakras
that also relate
to these 12
dimensions of reality.
And there are 12 houses within
the zodiac in the wheel.
So we are constantly
interacting, even though we're
not aware of it, with this
multi-dimensional phase
of our existence.
But we're also physical
beings as well.
We're here on Earth,
and we're dealing
with the
three-dimensional gravity
of living in the
21st century in very
challenging and
unsettling times.
I just got an email not
long ago to my website
from a couple that
lives in Greece.
Their name is Plutonia and Leon.
And they have gone through
the Greek banking crisis,
and they have been
completely wiped out.
They have very little,
and yet they're
finding something
inside of themselves
and some part of their
human experience, which
is keeping them going,
which is driving them
further and further
and deeper and deeper
into their own personal
and transcendental truth.
And I think, in
some ways, we're all
in the same place
with varying degrees.
And what's challenging about
the world that we live in
is that we look
around, and we see
a lot of markers that remind
us of how things have been.
There are houses that
we are familiar with,
maybe even houses
that we grew up in.
Towns, small towns
haven't changed very much
over the course of, say,
maybe the last 25 or 30 years.
Cars, we can still see cars
from the '80s and the '90s.
And there are even TV shows that
still reflect and reverberate
back from those times.
So we're living, in some ways,
with a simulacra of memory,
of our experience, our
history, and yet there
is something else taking place.
There's a whole new
world that's emerging,
and it's emerging in ways that
are fairly unsettling, chaotic,
and confusing for some
people, hopeful for others.
So what we're going
to do in today's show
is we're going to look at
how we can use astrology,
and especially some
of the current trends,
and how we can use these
trends and these cycles
and some of these
aspects to actually get
through these times.
And we're going to do that by
looking at Saturn, obviously
a big player, and the outer
planets, Uranus, Neptune,
Pluto, and Chiron as well,
as well as the North Node.
So let's get into this.
This is the astrology of you.
This is about you.
This is for you.
And to understand kind
of where we're going,
we need to understand
where we are.
So here we are, the
astrology of you.
You're in there somewhere.
Step through the looking glass.
It's a portal.
It's a mirror to your soul.
And that's where you
are, theoretically,
if you're watching this show.
You're on this planet.
You're somewhere
within the space
of this beautiful,
blue-green orb.
And you can see that there's
some unusual cloud formations
that we are now
becoming more used to.
We'll see those more up close
as the show goes on here.
This is a scene that
many people are not
all that unfamiliar with.
This is a slice of life in
America in the 21st century.
This is homelessness.
And the amount of
homelessness, or people
that are on the borderline
of being homeless,
is far greater than almost
any other time in our history.
There are people that have
had to leave their homes,
and they settle in
cheap hotels for a week
or a month at a time,
oftentimes with children, just
in order to get by.
And this is an extreme example
of some of the challenges
that we're dealing with.
Homelessness isn't just
being without a home.
There's a consciousness.
There's a mental
and emotional state
that goes along with
the reality of the lives
that these men and others
like them are experiencing.
So this is just one piece of
an emerging and, in some ways,
a growing trend in our
life and in our world.
Poverty.
The amount of poverty that
is taking place on the planet
is getting larger and larger
with each passing day.
We're seeing this widening
gap between the haves
and the have-nots.
And even the middle
class, which has
been the ballast and
the sort of the baseline
for personal wealth in
this country and the world,
even the middle class
is shrinking and going
away as the jobs and as
more and more costs are
put upon the consumer.
The cost of living,
inflation, the cost of fuel,
all these things are driving
up the prices and the prices
by which we derive our
daily bread from and with.
So what we're dealing with here
is this emerging issue, again,
of poverty, and it's becoming
more visceral for many of us.
The Occupy movement
was many things,
but one of the
things that it did do
is that it did show us,
for a brief moment in time,
that there is a great
disparity between the haves
and have-nots.
And it's not even
the 1% and the 99%.
it's more like the 0.25%
and the rest of us.
So poverty is not just an
issue we're dealing with now.
It's going to become a greater
issue as the days, weeks,
months, and years move on.
The environment.
These are chemtrails.
We're dealing with
them constantly.
You may think that I'm nuts.
You may think that people
that believe in chemtrails
are crazy, that they're
nothing but contrails.
I grew up in the
1960s and the 1970s,
and I know what a
contrail looks like.
A contrail takes
place over 30,000 feet
above the atmosphere,
and then it dissipates.
These are not contrails.
This is a pattern of chemtrail
dispersal, geoengineering,
aerosol spraying, and
it will spread out.
It'll become cloud cover.
And number one, it
will dim the sun.
And number two, it will
create some type of condition,
can either be rain, perhaps
snow, the polar vortex.
Whatever that is,
this is an issue.
This is a challenge.
We're dealing with it.
Inside of these
chemtrails, we have
things like aluminum, barium,
cesium, yes, cesium, manganese,
all these heavy
metals, iron oxide.
They're in our system.
We're breathing them
in on a daily basis.
This is another challenge
that we have to deal with.
Everybody has to deal with this.
Well, except for the
people that created it,
because they've got their
own little solution to that.
War.
We are on the brink
of war it seems
like almost every day
now, whether it's us,
or whether it's another
country, whether it's
Libya, or Syria, or
the Sudan, or Ukraine.
The specter of war, revolution,
regime change, it's constant.
We live in a time
of war without end.
It may not be the
great world war,
but there is enough global
conflict taking place
across the planet, which
disturbs our sense of being.
And it disturbs
our ability to feel
like we're living
in a world that
has some kind of coherence,
that we could have kind
of a linear experience
with our lives.
This is always just
in the background
of our consciousness.
And with Ukraine, it's
really in the foreground
of our consciousness.
Genetically-modified foods.
This is another issue
we're dealing with.
And there are people that
are doing good work fighting
genetically-modified foods,
but it's a challenge.
And it's a challenge
because both the government
and the corporations,
which are in charge
of genetically-modified
foods, not just Monsanto,
there are others, they have
been colluding and creating
legislation to
protect themselves.
And even when a
state like California
decides that it is going to put
something on the ballot that
is going to cause
companies to label
their foods as
genetically-modified,
huge amounts of money
are thrown at it,
and it's eventually defeated.
This is another issue
that we're dealing with.
So they're starting
to stack up now.
And if you have any
kind of awareness,
any kind of consciousness,
you know this stuff, right?
You cannot dismiss it.
You just can't.
And even if you're
doing well in your life,
you can't really
dismiss it, because you
know that somebody
somewhere else is
going through a difficult time.
And it makes it
challenging for us
to kind of stay in the
warm and fuzzy cocoon
that we used to live in.
That membrane, that
veil between us
and them is getting thinner
and thinner and thinner
with every passing day.
The banks.
J.P. Morgan here is kind
of a symbol of the banks,
has been engaged in
a banking scandal.
I'm sure some of you
have been following
this, the strange
tale of dead bankers.
I think they're up
to nine now that
are associated with J.P. Morgan.
In 2009, the end of
2008, October, 2008,
beginning of 2009, much
of our fears with banking
were confirmed when
the United States went
through a major banking
crisis all based
on toxic debt, all based on
derivatives that were accrued
during the housing blitz,
the housing crush and rush
during the late '90s.
Those toxic debts,
they're still out there.
They've been sold to Europe.
And when they were
sold to Europe,
what did we see what
happened in Europe?
We saw the Greek banking crisis.
We saw the banking
crisis in Spain.
We saw the banking crisis in
Cyprus, the banking crisis
in Italy, and of course, the
infusion of money from the IMF
and the hardship that
people had to take on
as a result of this money being
infused into their economy.
They had to settle
for a lot less.
And in fact, in
Greece, many people
lost their pensions
as a result of this.
So again, here's another
symptom of our times.
It's the banking, the
banking situation.
You know, we talk about a reset.
We talk about it like
somebody's about to get
traded from one team to another.
It's almost become a
casual form of repartee
in the lives of many
people, people that I know.
And so we're thinking about it.
It's another thing that our
consciousness is dealing with.
They're all kind of out there.
They're orbiting around us.
They're stacking up.
And what happens is it creates
a level of pressure and stress
that I think is--
it's at a level that
hasn't been approached before.
It's almost unparalleled
in our time.
Now, maybe it happened
during the Great Depression,
maybe it happened
during World War II.
But a lot of us haven't
lived through those times.
And now we're seeing
the accumulation
of all these pressure
points in our lives.
So the banking crisis,
yet another one.
And we have the rise
of the new money,
the rise of the new wealth.
And this, again, comes
into the disparity
between the haves
and the have-nots.
And it creates a real sense
in some people's lives
that they will
never have enough.
And that, by the
way, is an illusion.
But it's an illusion
that's being perpetrated
by the people that
want to control
the economic and financial
matrix that you're living in.
And then we get these people,
who are here almost 24/7
in our consciousness,
major distraction.
And this is just one.
There's plenty more.
There's "The
Bachelor," any number
of quote unquote
"reality shows,"
"Dancing with the Stars."
And then there's social issues
that are distractions as well.
The same-sex marriage issue
is a massive distraction
in many ways, keeping people's
eyes off the real ball
here, which is the
reformation of the financial
and the economic system and
the entire political system
as well all across the globe.
So we have distractions
that we have to deal with.
We have to navigate through.
We have to be able to get
them out of our consciousness
as well.
The whole house of cards feels
like it's about to collapse.
I don't know how
many people I've
spoken with through my own
personal readings with them
or sessions or consultations,
where they feel
like the other shoe is about to
drop, that there is something
coming, that there is something
that is going to take place
that's going to
wipe everything out.
And this feeling has been going
on now for about the past four
or five years.
And it hasn't
quite happened yet,
but people are being
almost traumatized
to the point where they're
expecting something to occur.
They're expecting
that next thing
that's going to push
everything off the cliff.
And living with that has its own
level of stress and discomfort
and pressure.
So what I'm trying
to do here is I'm
trying to kind of
elucidate and articulate
what we're dealing with in our
society and our culture, which
adds a significant amount
of stress, pressure,
and gravity in
each of our lives.
And we have different ways
of coping and different ways
of dealing with these types
of conditions, some of which
are healthy, and some of
which aren't so healthy.
And you know, that's OK too.
We're allowed a few unhealthy
vices every now and then
to get us through the night.
So what I want to do
here with the next part
or the next segment
of the show--
I've kind of set this
up a little bit-- is
I want to show you what's
happening astrologically,
without getting too fractal,
without really getting
into too much minutia, without
breaking down the code,
and trying to show you the
meaning, or the meaning
behind the meaning, or to
discern the larger pattern.
I mean, that stuff is there.
And we do that here in
"The Eleventh House,"
and there are plenty of episodes
that you can tap into that.
But what I hope
to give you today
are some tools towards
empowerment, astrological and
personal empowerment.
This is the planet Uranus,
and this is the sign of Aries.
And it is obviously
symbolic of Uranus in Aries.
And it's actually kind of
a cool depiction of Uranus.
I like it with those little
rings on the outside.
So we are in Uranus and Aries,
and it has global implications.
We've seen this with some
of the color revolutions.
We've seen this with
things like surveillance.
Uranus is technology, and
Aries is the government.
Or it's not really
the government,
it is the military-industrial
apparatus and the state.
Perhaps even the NSA falls
into an Aries kind of bucket.
And so we've seen this kind
of flashpoint revelation
around surveillance and privacy.
And there's a lot
more that's going
to take place with
Uranus in Aries.
But one of the
things that I want
to give to you,
one of the things
that I want to share with you
that each and every one of you
has who are watching this video
right now is this quality.
It's the quality
to be inventive.
It's the quality of
being innovative.
It's the ability to use this
electric energy that Uranus
brings to our consciousness,
and this other energy,
which is Aries, which
is the individual, which
is the self, which is you.
And by the way,
Aries rules the head.
And so I thought that
this image really
typified Uranus in Aries.
So what are we
talking about here?
We're talking about
problem solving.
We're talking about innovation.
We're talking about
brainstorming,
being open to
inspiration, feeling
like you could tap
into a solution for not
just the situations
and challenges
and problems of
your life, but also
how you can help
humanity at large.
Again, this energy is
available for anybody.
Think of it as free energy.
Think of it as free energy of
the mind to free your mind up.
So one of the things
that you may want to do
is you may want to
affirm in your own life
that you are inventive,
that you are creative,
that you are innovative,
that you can be spontaneous,
that you can problem solve.
Because, again,
this is the current.
This is the astrological
current that is currently
operating not just on the
world stage, but in your life
as well.
So one of the things
that you can do
is you can find out where
Aries is in your chart,
because there's a pretty
good possibility that Uranus
is in that part of your chart.
So if it's in the, let's
say it's in the 11th house,
since we're in "The
Eleventh House,"
then you would use that
Uranian-Aries energy
to network, to connect
with people, to find out
who is doing really
innovative and inventive work
that you can tap into together
and create some form of almost
like a small brain,
where a number of people
can contribute their nodes of
consciousness to a problem,
or to a situation, or to
even maybe the formation
of some type of community,
either online or off.
So find out where Aries is in
your chart with your houses,
and then find out what's
connecting with Aries
with Uranus transiting
in your own chart.
So let's say you
have Mercury in Leo,
you've got a
Mercury-Uranus trine.
That's a perfect
time for you to tap
in to this kind of electric
and spontaneous information
and energy.
It's available to you.
It's not a malefic.
This is actually something
that could be quite empowering.
So be inventive, be innovative,
be creative, problem solve.
Neptune in Pisces,
Neptune in Pisces.
I think Neptune in
Pisces is really
the deep current of the
times that we're in.
Neptune rules Pisces,
and it rules things
like feelings of
mysticism and oneness
and the great dissolve
into the cosmic void.
It rules compassion.
It rules forgiveness.
There is this wonderful
quality with Pisces and Neptune
together, again, on a global
level, that will allow us
and can allow us to tap into
a much greater or higher
vibration of
spiritual awareness.
And that vibration of
spiritual awareness
is not some sort of solipsistic
seeking of self-gratification
through things like the
Secret or other kinds
of new-age strategies.
What it really is is you
getting in touch with your soul,
and sometimes getting in touch
with your soul can be painful.
Sometimes it's not
the easiest thing
to be able to do
because there are
things lurking on the
periphery of that experience
that could be quite painful.
To get your soul, you have
to go through the shadows.
You have to go through
the River Styx at times.
And then your destination,
like Dante, Dante
through the Inferno,
is the realization
that you do have a
soul, and your soul
is the conduit to a
higher consciousness
and to your relationship
with the divine.
One of the things
or the key word that
came to me as a result
of Neptune in Pisces
is compassion.
And I thought that this
image was terrific.
Here we have a soldier
who's obviously
found a wounded child, and
the child is covered in blood.
And this soldier has
grasped this child
and is obviously displaying
something fairly out
of character for both his
station and his uniform.
And I think that one of the
things that we can really
do a lot better job
with in our lives
is to be, number one,
compassionate with ourselves.
Because if we screw up,
if we fall, if we fail,
some of the fallback has been to
be super critical of the things
that we've done.
Now, there's a whole
other psychology
that's being put into play.
I think some of
you have probably
seen the movie "Chosen,"
the song "Let it Go."
That's a whole
other sort of piece
that we're having to kind
of deal with and integrate
with in our lives.
But really, for me, the
fundamental vibration
or the base note
for all of this is
compassion and to be able
to allow oneself to feel it
on an individual level, on
a personal level with people
in your lives, on a
transpersonal level,
on a global level.
It all starts with you.
And if you can cultivate,
really cultivate
a sense of compassion,
and compassion
allows you to understand
another person's suffering,
to be empathetic, to be in
touch with your emotional body,
which, by the way, is
not always in vogue.
If you can do that, then
you open yourself up
to other qualities like grace
and forgiveness and surrender.
And these are all part and
parcel of Neptune in Pisces.
So with Neptune in Pisces,
one of the great qualities
and aspects we get to
experience is compassion.
Find out where Pisces
is in your chart,
because that's generally
were Neptune is going to be.
And when you see that, and then
you see the house that it's in,
that can be, for you,
the point of compassion
that you get to
practice and work on.
That is the entry point.
That is the portal
where you can dive
into that compassionate pool
of regeneration and grace
and even divine love.
Now, again, you want to find
out what the angles are.
What's happening?
What planets do you
have that are operating
in some sort of
aspect with Neptune?
In my chart, I have a
Neptune-Neptune trine going on,
which is maybe why I'm
talking about compassion,
maybe why I'm making such
a big deal out of this.
Pluto in Capricorn.
This is the third of the
outer planets, the biggie.
And we're dealing with
Pluto in Capricorn
in a very
interesting-- I mean, I
know a lot of people
who are-- Pluto's
been in Capricorn since 2009,
and people are tired of it
already.
And it's going to be in
Capricorn until 2021,
so we've got a long haul with
Pluto in Capricorn still.
And it has been relentless.
It has been rigorous.
It has been grinding us.
For a lot of people,
Pluto in Capricorn
has brought up survival issues.
People have lost their jobs
during Pluto in Capricorn.
Young people, students,
have massive amounts of debt
from student loans, and
the jobs just aren't there
on the back end of their
academic experience.
So they're having to
deal with their own Pluto
in Capricorn issues.
There's a sense here
with Pluto in Capricorn
that the chess pieces are being
moved around on a global level
and that you don't count, right?
You don't count.
It's like there's no
more kind of care.
There's no more compassion
for you as an individual
or even a consumer in some ways.
This is what I think the
masses are dealing with here.
And as a result, what
are we going to do?
How are we going
to deal with this?
We talk a lot about
bullying in our society.
There is a form of economic
and socioeconomic bullying
that's taking place at
a pretty high level.
It's not talked about very much.
We tend to distill
that discussion
and put it into playgrounds,
the context of playgrounds
or schools.
But truly, there's something
going on at a higher level.
And what are you going to do?
How are you going to
get through this time?
How are you going
to get stronger?
How are you going to push back?
The whole bullying thing is
quite interesting in some ways.
And it's come to our
awareness, and yeah, bullying
is not great.
But in a weird way, it
actually serves a purpose,
especially when you're young.
Because what bullying
does is it gets
people to either get stronger or
to recreate themselves and move
themselves out of the way.
It's almost like a kind of
a psychic and spiritual form
of building up immunity
in a weird way.
And so if you can
rise to the occasion,
and you can meet
that test, and you
can stare that bully in the
eye, and you can say, enough,
or I won't do this,
or you can push back
in a way that is
really empowering,
you've actually conquered
a fair amount of fear.
You've actually gone through a
rite of passage in some ways.
And unfortunately,
what's happening now
is we're sort of being
redirected and having people
in positions of
power and authority
take care of those things
for us, which sets up
a whole other set of
behaviors as well.
I guess what I'm getting
at here and using
bullying as kind of an example
with Pluto in Capricorn
is, on some level, it's
not about pushing back,
but it's about
staring this down.
It's about dealing with
it and dealing with it
in our own individual way and
finding our own place of power
inside this massive shift of
power in Pluto in Capricorn
to the corporatocracy,
to the plutocracy, which
has been taking
place since 2009.
And how do we do that?
Endurance, endurance.
Capricorn is all
about endurance.
It's all about the long now.
It's about long
time, the long tale
that life is not a
momentary experience.
It is not something that
you experience in a second.
I mean, it can be.
It can be.
But Capricorn,
what it does is it
expands your view and
your ideal of time.
And so what we need to do or
what would be very helpful
is if we can see ourselves
as being part of a continuum,
because that's also what
Capricorn represents.
It represents a continuum
and hierarchies and legacies.
And that where we are and
what we're doing now counts,
and that it moves
forward into the future.
Whatever that future is,
even if you cannot see it,
even if you don't have a
vision, know that we are headed
somewhere, that there is
a place that we're going.
And the key to getting
there is endurance.
And what does that mean?
Well, it means that
you're going to need
to be strong physically.
You're going to need to
be strong emotionally.
And you're going to need
to be strong mentally.
This is a really
challenging time.
And Pluto in Capricorn,
in my estimation,
is the initiation of the
human race on planet Earth.
That's exactly what
we're going through.
And if you want to be here, you
have to commit to being here.
That's part of it.
Pluto does not have
any-- it's not passive.
There's no grey area with Pluto.
It's black and white.
So if you want to
be on the planet,
commit to being on the planet.
And if you're going to commit
to being on the planet,
then you've got to
commit all the way.
You've got to be strong.
You've got to
build your body up.
You've got to build
your immunity up.
all these things up,
even if your
resources are limited.
And if you commit to it,
if you commit to this,
and you are willing
to endure, if you're
willing to go the distance,
the marathon in your own life,
then you will be given
exactly what you need in order
to do that because
that's how it works.
Endurance, a very
important part.
Find out where Capricorn
is in your chart.
What zone?
What sector is
Capricorn showing up?
That's where Pluto is, and it's
going to be there for a while.
But it's also going to be
aspecting other planets.
So it's a pretty sophisticated
and nuanced relationship
with this very intense energy.
And if you are willing
to tap into it,
and you're willing to commit
to it, it will work with you.
Trust me on this.
Saturn.
Saturn's a big player right now.
It's in the sign of Scorpio.
There are three things I want to
talk about here over the course
of the rest of
this presentation,
the rest of this episode.
Saturn is one of them.
The True Node is the other,
and Chiron is the third.
So Saturn is that
thing in our charts
where we keep coming back to
time and time and time and time
again.
It's related to
Capricorn obviously,
which we just talked about.
And Saturn is the planet
of the life lesson.
Some people call it karma.
It's the planet of
the life lesson.
Wherever Saturn shows
up in your chart,
that is what you
are here to learn.
That is what you
are here to master.
And Saturn right
now is currently
in the sign of Scorpio.
So what are we
doing collectively
with Saturn in Scorpio?
What are we doing in order to
bring that into our own lives?
Well, Scorpio is sexual energy.
That's what Scorpio represents.
It's what it symbolizes.
It's magnetic.
It's powerful.
It comes from the sacral region.
And when we have
Saturn interacting
with Scorpio, what we're being
asked of on a global level,
on a collective level, and on an
individual level is to harness
that power, is to
channel, is to use it
in ways that are going
to be productive for us.
So it's about really kind of
reconsidering and reevaluating
our relationship with
our own sexual energy,
with our own primal energy.
How are we using it?
What are we doing with it?
Are we allowing it
to have some kind
of real channel in our
lives, or are we blocked?
Because sometimes
Saturn will also
represent some form
of blockage as well,
some form of limitation.
How can we break through
those forms of limitation
with our own
personal power, i.e.
Scorpio's sexual
power, all the things
that go along with that as well?
Is your sexual energy
all over the place?
Maybe you need to rein it in.
That's part of what we're going
through on an individual level,
but also on a collective
level as well.
Find out, find out where
Scorpio is in your chart
and track it with Saturn.
And you'll see that
there are themes
that are going to be taking
place with Saturn in Scorpio
and, again, the association
with other planets and aspects
in your chart.
I just love this image.
This, to me, this is the
image of sacral energy.
It's creative.
It's vivid.
It's vibrant.
And this, through
Saturn in Scorpio,
I think is what we're
here to channel, this own,
this power on a personal level.
It's here.
It's available.
It's open to us.
Now, Saturn's going to
be moving and shifting,
and it's going to take
place in December.
And it moves into the
sign of Sagittarius,
which is a very, very
different energy.
Sagittarius
represents religions.
It represents sacred law.
And I think that what's going
to take place during Saturn
in Sagittarius on
a collective level,
but also on an individual
level, is that many of us
are going to reaffirm
some kind of relationship
with the divine, because
that's what Sagittarius does.
It gives us this sense that
we are connected to something
greater to ourselves, and
we expand outward or inward,
whichever sort of direction in
this multi-dimensional universe
you want to travel in.
So part of channeling and
grounding and funneling
the energy of Saturn once
it shifts in December
is sacred energy.
So we go from the
sacral to the sacred.
And it's going to
be in Sagittarius
for 2 and 1/2 years.
So it can be a
really creative time
for everybody to
realign themselves
with what it means to
live a sacred existence
or a sacred experience.
And that's up to
you to determine.
I'm not here to tell you
what that is for you.
I'm just telling
you that that energy
is going to be
available for everyone.
Chiron.
You know, I had never
seen this image before.
This is an image of Chiron, and
it's drawn by William Blake.
And I'm a big William
Blake guy, but I'd never
realized that Blake had
done this rendering.
So Chiron is the wounded healer.
It's a really important
part of the chart.
And if you want to understand
your Achilles heel, which
has to be healed, it has to
be brought into your life,
you must understand Chiron.
You must know Chiron.
And for a lot of
people that were
born during the mid '60s
and even the early '70s,
you're going to be going
through your Chiron return.
And Chiron is in Pisces.
A lot of you are going
through it right now.
So this generation
or sub-generation,
what you're experiencing
is the reintegration
of what it's like to be a
religious or a spiritual person
without shame, without
any kind of consequence,
without any kind of guilt.
You're ready and willing to
embrace that, accept that,
and live that as an
integrated part of your life.
And Chiron's in Pisces
right now, so in some ways,
we're all being asked to
do that on some level,
while we also ferret out in
other aspects the illusion
of religion, the
illusion of separation.
All these things that kind of
have gone along part and parcel
with the business of religion,
with the churchianity
is what some people call it,
the franchising of religion.
Chiron in Pisces gets us in
touch with the shallowness
and the failure of some
of those institutions
to live up to what we
thought that they could
be at some point long, long ago.
So here's Chiron.
You want to find out where
Chiron is in your chart,
because that is, in some
ways, the key to your chart.
That is your secret.
Here we go.
Chiron is the key.
And these are some phrases
that I came up with for you.
Own your own pain.
That's what Chiron is about.
Own it.
It's nobody's else's pain.
And then once you own
it and sift through it
and work with it, use it
as a healing modality,
then you can move through it
and integrate it into your life.
Own your shame.
Chiron, Chiron is, in some
ways, the expositor of shame.
It shows us those
areas in our lives
where we hide things, where we
put things away from the prying
eyes of our parents, or our
schools, or society at large.
And when you go through an
intense Chiron moment, when
there's an aspect
of a planet that's
hitting your
Chiron, where you're
going through your
Chiron return,
which, again, a lot of you
are, then you get to own that.
You get to integrate that.
You get to deal with it.
I'll give you an example
with my own life.
I have Chiron in Aquarius,
and it's in the third house.
And I experienced that in
a couple of different ways.
I grew up as an
only child, and I
had parents that used
polysyllabic words.
So I had a fairly evolved
vocabulary when I was a kid.
So I'd use these words, because
I'd use them with my parents,
and I'd use them at school, and
I got a lot of grief for that.
And so what I did is I decided
to scale down my vocabulary.
And I didn't know
it at that time,
but I was also, in
some ways, scaling down
my own sort of
mental development.
And that was Chiron,
I have Chiron
in Aquarius, third house,
Gemini, elementary school,
schooling, and all that stuff.
And so I was ashamed, in
some ways, of my intellect,
or what I was able to at least
perceive as my intellect,
with my family and in a public
setting, I shut it down.
So we all have our pieces
of Chiron in our chart,
and it's important
to understand that.
Why?
Because Chiron is the point of
authentic access in the chart.
And once you're able to
own it, and once you're
able to bring it
home, then you have
done some really profound
work and some really deep
integration.
Understand and embrace
your own uniqueness,
because that's what Chiron does.
Chiron, while it is the
repository of shame,
is also the key to
your own authenticity.
So find out where Chiron is,
bring it home, and own it.
The True Node.
I am a big True Node
guy because I've
seen it work in my own life.
And I've seen it where
I have done things
outside of the realm
of my True Node,
and I've not really done
really well or very well
as a result of that.
I use this image because
the True Node is also
known as the dragon's head.
And so we talk about the
True Node or the North Node,
and then the South Node
is the dragon's tail.
Now, the dragon's
tail is, again, it's
kind of an area where
we feel vulnerable,
where parts of our lives
really don't work quite well.
And sort of the modern
astrological vector
for the nodes is to move towards
the North Node or the True Node
and away from the South Node.
Now, there can be a case made
that integrating the South Node
can be quite important to the
development of the individual.
But I think if we place our
energy on the North Node, what
we're going to do-- and
the True Node-- they're
very close together-- but
if we do that, what we'll do
is we'll find our True North.
We'll find the pole
star for our chart.
And if we follow
it, then we will
be rewarded by
essentially coming
in contact with our destiny.
So you've got to find out
where your True Node is.
It's really important,
very, very important.
And then you want to, with
as much courage and passion
and brio and all those
things, commitment,
that you bring to
the table, go to it.
Go to it, and then access
it, and tap into it.
The most challenging True
Node is the twelfth house,
because that takes you
away from the world.
And we live in a world where
we have been inculcated,
and we've been conditioned
to be in the world,
to be successful, to achieve,
to climb, to have the big bank
account, whatever
those things are,
whatever those markers
are for every individual.
But the True Node in
the twelfth house,
it has nothing to do with that.
In fact, it has nothing
to do this world at all.
So your challenge,
or your chart,
your navigational
point of destiny
is to go deeply into
meditation, to go deeply
into spending time with
yourself, to understanding
the quality and the
nature of your soul.
Your South Node would
be in the sixth house.
So there would be a lot
of people tapping on you,
wanting you to do
things for them.
And the fallback would
be to serve and to serve
in ways that aren't necessarily
in your own best interest,
dispersing your power,
dispersing your will,
dispersing your energy.
And what you really want
to do is take that up
into the twelfth house.
And you want to spend
time with yourself,
and your higher self, and all
your multidimensional selves,
and all that stuff.
So the True Node is
really important.
Go find it in your
chart and make it
a point to travel there, and
stay there, and hang out there.
Now, what I did is I
punched up my chart
just so you can-- give
you an example of the True
Node in action.
Here is my True Node, and it's
right here on the mid-heaven.
And the mid-heaven is the point
of contact with the world.
The tenth house is generally
considered the house
where we come in contact
with culture, commerce.
It's the world stage.
People that have planets
in the tenth house,
especially planets like
the Moon or the Sun,
they're generally
people that have
some form of public standing
or people know who they are.
And so here's my sun
in the tenth house,
and here I am in
front of this camera.
I'm kind of living out my
tenth house sun moment.
But it's the True Node
that's really important
because it's in Virgo.
And it's in the sign of
Virgo, which is service.
So I am here with the True Node,
the True North of my chart,
to bring some message
of service and helping
people to the world,
which I am actually
doing right here and now.
I am living my True Node.
And it took me a long time
to live that True Node,
to get to that point.
Because wherever it is in
the chart, wherever it is,
there's going to be, A,
the South Node, number one.
But there's also going
to be distractions.
There's also going to
be other pieces, which
will take you away.
And for the longest
time, I thought
I was here to help other
people, in some ways,
find their own destiny.
And yes, I'm doing
that to some extent.
But I was engaged in working
with musicians and artists
and trying to help promote them.
And I was OK at it, but
it was always about them.
It was about their life.
It was about their
peace, and their mission,
and their True Node.
But it wasn't about mine.
And when I finally
said, OK, I'm going
to focus on this part
of my life, that's
when the True Node lit
up for me and became
a potent point of
expression in my chart.
And I think anybody can tap into
their True Node and follow it.
And you can find where it
is you're supposed to be
and what you're
supposed to be doing.
It's not that hard.
All it takes is courage
and a willingness
to take the steps
in order to do that.
Now, real quick, my
South Node is down here
in the sign of Pisces, and
it's in the fourth house.
And as a result of that, I have
challenges, Piscean challenges,
with my family at times.
And I will give you
some interesting touch
points here just to show
you how astrology works.
I'm going to peel
back and unveil
just a small piece
of my personal life.
In 2009, I got a divorce,
and I left my house.
And it was right around
the 6th of March,
which is right where
my South Node is.
All right?
So keep that in mind.
Family-- I'm having a South
Node experience in 2009.
In 2010, almost to the day
a year later, my father
passes away.
Again, South Node experience,
the fourth house, Pisces,
family.
And just last week,
on the 7th of March,
again, down here
in my South Node,
I signed some papers
that have really
helped clarify and
articulate some things
with my ex-wife and my child
and all kinds of stuff,
really positive things.
But it went through a fairly
intense, fairly turgid,
and pretty emotional
sort of trial for me.
And when did it take place?
The same time that
I left the house
and went through the divorce,
the same time my father died.
Again, all South Node stuff.
So I'm just sharing
this with you
because it shows that there
is a unique and divine timing
to astrology, which you can
pluck out again and again
and again.
And every one of those
times, what happened was
is that it freed me up to
do more with my North Node
in my own way.
So we have to go through
the South Node at times,
but ultimately and
hopefully, it allows
us to go deeper and further with
our North Node or True Node.
Where does it all take us?
Where does it all take you?
I love this image.
This is called "Glad Day."
It's by William Blake.
And to me, it is innocence.
It is imagination.
It is freedom.
It is living life in unabashedly
joyous and authentic terms.
And hopefully,
hopefully, if you can
work with some of
the things that I've
shared with you today, and you
can find some of those pieces
like being inventive,
and compassionate,
and enduring, hopefully, you
can put them all together,
and you can, and we can,
get to this point together.
We can all live from this
radiant, and vulnerable,
and open, and joyous personal
and collective being.
So I want to thank
you for joining me
on this edition of "The Eleventh
House," the astrology of you.
And hopefully, you've picked
up a few things along the way
so that we can all get to
that "Glad Day" place together
at some point in time.
So until the next time,
this is Robert Phoenix,
and may the stars be with you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]